John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), commonly known as JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th President of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest politician ever elected President of the United States. Kennedy governed America during the height of the Cold War, and much of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of Congress before assuming the presidency.

A member of the prestigious Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 and joined the United States Navy Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival after the sinking of the PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero, earning him the Navy and Marine Corps Medals, but it also left him severely wounded. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented the working class in the Boston district of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was then elected to the U.S. Senate, serving as the junior senator from Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published the book *Profiles in Courage*, which won the Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran for president in 1960. His campaign garnered significant support after the first televised presidential debate in U.S. history, and he was elected president, defeating his Republican opponent Richard Nixon, the incumbent vice president.

Kennedy's presidency saw heightened tensions with communist countries during the Cold War. He also directed an increase in the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam and launched the Strategic Hamlet Program during his presidency. In 1961, Kennedy authorized the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to fund and train a group of Cuban exiles to launch an attack aimed at overthrowing Fidel Castro's Cuban government in the Bay of Pigs and Operation Mongoose, which ultimately failed. In October 1962, U.S. reconnaissance aircraft discovered Soviet missile bases deployed in Cuba. The subsequent period of tension, known as the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly led to nuclear war. In August 1961, after the East German army erected the Berlin Wall, Kennedy sent a convoy of troops to reassure the people of West Berlin of U.S. support and delivered one of his most famous speeches in West Berlin in June 1963. In 1963, Kennedy signed the first nuclear arms treaty. He presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, the Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and continued the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the moon before 1970. He supported the civil rights movement but was only partially successful in implementing his New Frontier domestic policies.

The then-Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson assumed the presidency. Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested for the assassination attempt, but he was shot dead by Jack Ruby two days later. Both the FBI and the Warren Commission concluded that Oswald acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination persisted. Following Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranked highly in polls of U.S. presidents among historians and the general public. His private life came under considerable scrutiny after he publicly revealed his chronic illnesses and extramarital affairs in the 1970s. Kennedy was the most recent U.S. president to die while in office.

== Childhood ==
John Fitzgerald Kennedy was born in Brookline, Norfolk County, Massachusetts, on May 29, 1917, in the suburbs of Boston. He was the son of Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a member of the elite who was involved in many philanthropic activities.
His maternal grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, was a United States Congressman and served two terms as Mayor of Boston. Both his paternal and maternal grandparents were children of Irish immigrants.
John F. Kennedy's parents had nine children in total: Joseph Jr., Kennedy, and his younger siblings Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.

John F. Kennedy's parents had nine children in total: the eldest son, Joseph Jr.; Kennedy was the second child; and his seven younger siblings were Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward. Kennedy's father amassed a considerable fortune and established a trust for his nine children to ensure their lifelong financial independence. His business kept him away from home for extended periods, but Joe Sr. was a tremendous influence on his children's lives. He encouraged ambition, emphasized political discussions at the dinner table, and demanded high academic achievement. John Kennedy's first exposure to politics came during a tour of Boston's boroughs with his maternal grandfather Fitzgerald during his unsuccessful gubernatorial campaign in 1922.
With Joe Sr.'s business ventures centered on Wall Street and Hollywood, and a polio outbreak in Massachusetts, the family decided to move from Boston to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City in September 1927.
Years later, Kennedy's brother, Robert, told Look magazine that their father left Boston because of a job posting that read: "No Irish Need Apply." (Translation: "No Irish applications accepted.") The Kennedy family spent the summer and early fall at their home in Port Hyannis, Massachusetts, a village in Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, boating, and playing rugby. During Christmas and Easter, the family spent time at a winter resort in Palm Beach, Florida.

=== Education ===
In September 1930, at age 13, Kennedy entered the eighth grade at Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut. By April 1931, after undergoing an appendectomy, he was withdrawn from Canterbury and spent time recovering at home.
In September 1931, Kennedy began attending high school at Choate Rosemary Hall, a prestigious boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. Mrs. Rose wanted her two sons, John and Joe Jr., to attend a Catholic school, but Mr. Joe Sr. preferred a Catholic school. that if they wanted to compete in the political world, they needed to study with boys from prestigious Protestant families.
John spent his first year at Choate in his brother's shadow and reacted with rebellious behavior that attracted a gang of friends. Their most infamous prank was using firecrackers to blow up toilet seats. At a subsequent student assembly in the chapel, Headmaster George St. John swung the toilet seat and spoke of "bastards" who would "spit in our seas," from which Kennedy named his group the "Muckers' Club," which included his roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.
Kennedy graduated from Choate High School in June 1935, ranking 64th out of 112 students. Kennedy served as the school yearbook manager and was voted "potentially successful." "the best."
Kennedy intended to study under the guidance of the British political theorist and economist, Harold Laski, at the London School of Economics, like his brother. Poor health forced him to return to the United States in October 1935. He enrolled late at Princeton University but had to leave after two months due to a gastrointestinal illness.
In September 1936, Kennedy enrolled at Harvard University. He occasionally wrote for the internal newspaper, The Harvard Crimson, but was less involved in school politics, preferring to focus on sports and social life. Kennedy played football on the JV team in his sophomore year, but an injury forced him to leave the team and left him with lasting back problems for the rest of his life. He earned membership in the Hasty Pudding Club and the Spee Club, two of the elite "ultimate social clubs" at Harvard University.
In July 1938, Kennedy and his brother departed for overseas work at the U.S. embassy in London, where his father was serving as President Franklin D. Roosevelt's ambassador to the Court of St. James's. The following year, Kennedy spent time traveling throughout Europe, the Soviet Union, the Balkans, and the Middle East to prepare for his honorary dissertation at Harvard. After arriving in Berlin, where a U.S. diplomatic representative gave him a secret message about the impending war to deliver to his father, he traveled to Czechoslovakia before returning to London on September 1, 1939, the day Germany invaded Poland and World War II began. Two days later, the family appeared before the House of Commons to speak in support of Britain's declaration of war against Germany. Kennedy was appointed to represent his father in helping to arrange for the American survivors of the SS Athenia disaster before their return to the United States on the first transatlantic flight.

While a senior at Harvard, Kennedy began to study more seriously and focus on political philosophy. He was included in the Dean's List (honoring high-achieving students) in his third year. In 1940, Kennedy completed his dissertation entitled "Appeasement in Munich," on the British negotiations for the Munich Agreement. Published on July 24th under the title "Why England Slept," this dissertation was one of the first documents to provide information about the war and its origins, and quickly became a bestseller. In addition to addressing Britain's unwillingness to strengthen its military before the war, the book called for an Anglo-American alliance against rising authoritarian powers.

Kennedy's growing support for U.S. intervention in World War II, coupled with his father's isolationist beliefs, led to his dismissal from the ambassadorial post.

In 1940, Kennedy graduated cum laude from Harvard with a Bachelor of Science degree in government, focusing on international affairs. That fall, he enrolled in Stanford University's graduate school of business and took trial classes, but dropped out after one semester to help his father complete his memoirs as the U.S. ambassador. In early 1941, Kennedy made a visit to South America.

== Military Service ==
In the spring of 1941, John F. Kennedy volunteered to join the U.S. Army, but was rejected due to back injuries. The U.S. Navy accepted Kennedy that September. After holding several command positions in the Pacific theater, Kennedy was promoted to captain and assigned to command a torpedo-equipped high-speed patrol boat (the PT-109).

On August 2, 1943, while participating in a night attack near the Solomon Islands, the Japanese destroyer Amagiri rammed Kennedy's PT-109, cutting it in two and killing two crew members. Kennedy was thrown overboard, further injuring his already wounded back. Despite this, Kennedy managed to help a wounded comrade and guided the survivors to swim three miles to a deserted island, where they were eventually rescued.

In early 1945, John F. Kennedy was honorably discharged from the military with his medals, just months before Japan surrendered to the Allies.

== Political Entry ==

After World War II (1939–1945), John F. Kennedy entered politics (partly to fill the void left by the death of his brother, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., on whom the Kennedy family placed high hopes). In 1946, when James Michael Curley left his seat in a Democratic-leaning congressional district to become mayor of Boston, Kennedy decided to run and narrowly defeated his Republican opponent. He was subsequently re-elected twice.

In 1952, Kennedy ran for Senate with the slogan "Kennedy will do more for Massachusetts." He entered the Senate after defeating incumbent Republican Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. by a margin of 70,000 votes. There, Kennedy skillfully avoided criticizing Senator Joseph McCarthy's controversial anti-communist campaign and his hunt for Soviet spies. This was perhaps because McCarthy was popular in Massachusetts, and because McCarthy was a friend of his, his father's, dating his sisters, and his brother, Robert F. Kennedy, had briefly worked for McCarthy. Although Kennedy, due to illness, was absent when the Senate voted 65-22 to impeach McCarthy, Kennedy was still criticized by anti-McCarthy figures like Eleanor Roosevelt, who said, "He (Kennedy) should have shown more courage, instead of just trying to preserve his political career."
On September 12, 1953, Kennedy married Jacqueline Bouvier. Over the next two years, Kennedy underwent several spinal surgeries, came close to death (during his lifetime, he received the anointing of the sick four times – a Catholic rite for the dying), and was frequently absent from the Senate due to illness. During this time, Kennedy published *Profiles in Courage*, honoring seven U.S. senators who had accepted political sacrifices to defend their beliefs. This work was awarded the 1957 Pulitzer Prize for biography.

In 1956, Kennedy campaigned at the Democratic National Convention for the vice presidential nomination, but the convention chose Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee instead. Nevertheless, these efforts helped solidify the young senator's reputation within the Democratic Party.

== Presidential Campaign ==
In 1960, Kennedy announced his intention to run for President of the United States. During the Democratic primary, he faced challenges from Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota, Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas, and Adlai Stevenson, the Democratic candidate of 1952 and 1956, who was not officially running but appeared to be a promising and popular candidate. Kennedy was successful in primaries such as those in Wisconsin and West Virginia, ultimately securing the Democratic National Convention nomination in 1960.

Despite the conflicts that arose during the primaries, Kennedy chose Johnson as his running mate, as he needed Johnson's influence in the South to win the closest election since 1916. Key issues in the election included the economic stimulus plan, Kennedy's Catholic faith, Cuba, and debates over whether the Soviet Union had surpassed the United States in space and missile technology.

In September and October, for the first time, American voters were able to watch on television the debates between the two presidential candidates, Kennedy of the Democratic Party and Richard M. Nixon of the Republican Party. Throughout the debates, Nixon appeared tense, sweaty, and unshaven, in contrast to Kennedy's elegant and composed demeanor, leading many to believe Kennedy was the winner, although historians believe that in terms of debating skills, the two were evenly matched. It should also be noted that those who watched the debates on radio believed Nixon was more impressive.

On Election Day, November 8, 1960, Kennedy won by a very narrow margin over Nixon, despite allegations of voter fraud in Texas and Illinois that cost Nixon the presidency.

== President of the United States ==

On January 20, 1961, John F. Kennedy was sworn in as the 35th President of the United States. In his inaugural address, Kennedy urged Americans to be active citizens, saying, "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country." He also called on nations around the world to cooperate in fighting what he called "the common enemies of mankind... tyranny, poverty, disease, and war."

=== Foreign Policy ===

On April 17, 1961, John F. Kennedy ordered the implementation of a plan to infiltrate Cuba. With the assistance of the CIA, in the so-called Bay of Pigs incident (Playa Girón), 1,500 Cuban refugees trained in the United States as part of the "2506th Brigade" returned to the island nation hoping to overthrow Fidel Castro. But the CIA misjudged the Cuban people's resistance, and several mistakes in conducting the operation led to a disastrous failure. On April 19, most of those who landed on the island were either killed or captured, and Kennedy was forced to negotiate the release of 1,189 people. This was a stain on the Kennedy administration's foreign policy, but the President accepted full responsibility. On May 1, 1961, leader Fidel Castro declared:

On August 13, 1961, the East German government began construction of the Berlin Wall, separating East Berlin from the western part of the city due to the presence of US troops in the area. Kennedy took no action to dismantle the wall and did little to reverse or stop its construction, which stretched to 155 km.

The Cuban Missile Crisis began on October 14, 1962, when a U.S. U.S. U.S. U.S. reconnaissance aircraft photographed a site for medium-range ballistic missiles under construction in Cuba. Kennedy found himself in a dilemma: if the United States attacked the missile site, nuclear war could erupt. If nothing was done to counter the imminent threat of nuclear weapons, and if attacked first, the United States would be unable to retaliate. Another concern was the weakening influence of the United States in the Western Hemisphere. Many military officials and cabinet members pressured for an air strike on the sites, but Kennedy ordered a naval blockade and began negotiations with the Soviet Union. Instead of the word "blockade," the word "quarantine" was used to describe the situation, because, by international law, a blockade is an act of war. A week later, John F. Kennedy and Soviet leader and Prime Minister Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev reached a compromise in which Khrushchev agreed to remove the missiles if the United States committed to not intervening in Cuba, and a tacit agreement to remove U.S. ballistic missiles from Turkey within six months. This event, bringing the world closer to the brink of nuclear war than ever before, taught Kennedy to be more cautious in his dealings with the Soviet Union. And the commitment never to intervene in Cuba remains respected to this day.

One of Kennedy's efforts to demonstrate his belief in the power of goodwill and peace for the betterment of the world was the establishment of the Peace Corps, one of his first actions as President. Through this program, which is still active today, volunteers reach out to developing countries to help their people in areas such as education, agriculture, healthcare, and construction.

Concerned about the long-term dangers of radioactive contamination and nuclear proliferation, Kennedy pushed for the passage of the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which prohibited tests on land, in the atmosphere, and underwater, but not underground tests. The United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union were among the first to sign the treaty. Kennedy signed it into law in August 1963. Kennedy believed this was one of his administration's greatest achievements.

=== Domestic Policy ===
Kennedy used the term "New Frontier" for his domestic policy. With ambitious goals, this program promised to provide federal funding for education and healthcare for the elderly, and government intervention to curb the recession. Kennedy also pledged to end racial segregation.

The effort to end racial segregation was one of the most pressing issues of the Kennedy administration. In 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled to end the segregation of white and black students in public schools. However, many schools, particularly in Southern states, refused to comply with the ruling, and segregation continued on buses, in restaurants, movie theaters, and other public places.

Thousands of Americans of different races and social backgrounds united to protest against this abuse. Kennedy supported racial reconciliation and civil rights. A notable event was Kennedy's phone call to comfort and express sympathy to Coretta Scott King, wife of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. While imprisoned during his 1960 presidential campaign, King garnered significant voter support. Thanks to the intervention of John and Robert Kennedy, King was soon released.

However, after his election, Kennedy believed the civil rights movement only alienated white Southerners, and therefore the passage of civil rights legislation would be difficult in Congress (which was controlled by Southern Democrats). He distanced himself from the movement, leading many civil rights leaders to believe that Kennedy did not support their efforts.

In June 1963, John F. Kennedy was forced to intervene when George Wallace, the governor of Alabama, prevented two Black students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from enrolling at the University of Alabama. Ultimately, facing the federal guard, Deputy Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, and the National Guard in Alabama, George Wallace relented. That same evening, Kennedy delivered his famous speech on civil rights, broadcast on national television and radio, outlining what would later become the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
As part of his domestic policy, in 1963 John F. Kennedy introduced a tax reform bill, including a reduction in income tax, but this bill was not passed by Congress until 1964, after his assassination. This was one of the largest tax cuts in modern US history, surpassing even Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax cut law.

=== Space Program ===

Kennedy was passionate about putting the United States in a leading position in the space race. The Soviet Union had already taken the lead in space exploration, and Kennedy was determined to catch up. He said, "No nation wants to lead other nations while remaining behind in the space race," and "We choose to go to the Moon and pursue other programs not because they are easy, but because they are difficult missions." Kennedy requested Congress to allocate over $22 billion for the Apollo Project, with the goal of putting a man on the Moon before the end of the 1960s. In 1969, six years after Kennedy's death, this goal was achieved when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin became the first people to set foot on the Moon.

=== Cabinet ===

=== Supreme Court Appointments ===
President John F. Kennedy appointed two justices to the United States Supreme Court:

Byron Raymond White (1962)

Arthur Joseph Goldberg (1962)

=== 1963 Assassination ===

On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas at 12:30 Central Time (CST) while visiting the state. Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson was sworn in as President shortly afterward.

== Image, Social Life and Family ==
Compared to previous First Ladies and Presidents, Kennedy and his wife, "Jackie," were relatively young. Both were particularly popular, in a way more suited to pop singers or movie stars than to politicians, influencing fashion trends and becoming targets for paparazzi in high-profile magazines.
The Kennedy family brought new life to the White House. They believed it was a place to celebrate the achievements of American culture and history. They invited artists, writers, scientists, poets, musicians, actors, Nobel laureates, and athletes to visit. Jacqueline Kennedy also collected artwork and decorated the interior, gradually renovating the building's rooms.

With their two young children, Caroline and John Jr. (often called "John John"), the Kennedy family transformed the White House into a youthful and joyful place. Outside, on the White House lawn, the Kennedy family built a nursery, a swimming pool, and a treehouse.

But beneath the glamorous surface lay the pain of personal tragedies, most notably the death of his son, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, in August 1963, as an infant.

After his death, secrets about his extramarital affairs with staff and visitors to the White House during his time in office gradually came to light. At the time, such matters were considered inappropriate to expose to the public, so in Kennedy's case, they were never revealed to the public while he was alive, even with public indications of a relationship with Marilyn Monroe, as the beloved actress sang "Happy Birthday Mr. Kennedy." President Kennedy at a televised birthday reception in May 1962. Following Kennedy's death, much was revealed, including his relationship with Judith Campbell Exner, who was simultaneously involved with Chicago Mafia boss Sam Giancana.

Kennedy was ranked third (after Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mother Teresa) on Gallup's list of the most admired figures of the 20th century.

== The Kennedy Assassination (1963) ==

On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, at 12:30 Central Time (CST) while visiting the state. Lee Harvey Oswald, charged at 7:00 AM with murdering a Dallas police officer, was charged at 11:30 AM with conspiracy to assassinate the President (at that time there was no charge of presidential assassination). Just two days later, Oswald was shot and killed by Jack Ruby at a Dallas police station. Five days after Oswald's murder, newly elected President Lyndon B. Johnson established the Warren Commission, led by Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren, to investigate the assassination. Both the Warren Commission and the House Assassination Commission concluded that Oswald was the perpetrator. However, critics argued that Oswald either did not act alone or was not involved in the assassination plot at all; that Oswald was the victim of a setup, and that the assassination occurred as part of a conspiracy contrary to the official conclusions.

== Legacy ==

Translation:
...My American friends: don't ask what your country will do for you—ask what you have done for your country. My world citizens: don't ask what America will do for you, but ask what we can do together for the freedom of mankind.
Television became the primary source of information, allowing the public to follow the events of the assassination, while newspapers lagged behind, unable to provide readers with up-to-date news. For the first time, the American television network broadcast 24 hours a day. The American public and others around the world witnessed firsthand the Kennedy funeral and the assassination of Lee Harvey Oswald. Thanks to these historical events, television technology matured and became a source of information that could compete with daily newspapers.

On March 14, 1967, John F. Kennedy's body was laid to rest at Arlington National Cemetery. The U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Adlai Stevenson, said of the assassination, "All of us... will carry the pain of Kennedy's death until the last day of our lives." Kennedy rests alongside his deceased wife and children, while his brother, Robert, is buried nearby. His grave is marked by the "Eternal Flame."

Despite John F. Kennedy's brief time in the White House, and despite the lack of major legislation passed during his presidency, Kennedy remains considered one of the greatest presidents of the United States.
Kennedy's image is preserved in many aspects of American culture. On December 24, 1963, Idlewild International Airport in New York was renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport; on April 30, 1964, an aircraft carrier was named USS John F. Kennedy. In 1979, the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library was inaugurated. John F. Kennedy University opened in Pleasant Hill, California in 1964. Kennedy's portrait also appears on the half-dollar bill.

In 1964, he was posthumously awarded the Pacem in Terris Prize.

== Works ==
Why England Slept (1938), dissertation
Profiles in Courage (1957), biography
A Nation of Immigrants (1958), historical summary
== Criticisms ==

Despite being among the most popular presidents in the United States, critics argue that Kennedy's fame was undeserved. Despite being a young and charismatic president, Kennedy did not have many opportunities to achieve significant accomplishments during his presidency. According to this line of reasoning, the immense public affection for Kennedy stemmed from the fact that his short presidency was marked by an optimistic beginning with many programs of action that were believed to benefit America, its people, and global issues. The Civil Rights Act, presented to Congress in 1963, was partly formulated by his brother, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, and implemented by his successor, President Lyndon Johnson, in 1964.
Kennedy's private life attracted the attention of his critics. They argued that errors in assessing his personal life would lead to inaccurate judgments about his political career. Much of the criticism stems from revelations about the extent to which the Kennedy family concealed information from American voters regarding personal matters such as the severity of Kennedy's illnesses (which could have been life-threatening, like Addison's disease), his high-dose treatment regimen, his long-term extramarital affairs, and suspected involvement with organized crime figures. Seymour Hersh, in *Dark Side of Camelot* (1998), made these arguments. Robert Dallek's *An Unfinished Life* (2003), a more balanced biography, also contains many details concerning Kennedy's health.

== Famous Quote ==
In his inaugural address on January 20, 1961, President Kennedy uttered a quote that would later be considered one of his most famous:

(Translation:)

== See also ==

Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis
John F. Kennedy, Jr.
The Kennedy Family
The Kennedy Curse
The 1961 Goldsboro Atomic Bombing
The Assassination of John F. Kennedy


== Notes ==

== References ==

=== Main Document ===

=== Supplementary Document ===

== External Links ==

Finded imdb, Found ontheissuespath, Found c-span,
Official
John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum
John Fitzgerald Kennedy National Historic Site
White House biography Archived June 21, 2013 at Wayback Machine
Media
John F. Kennedy collected news and commentary at The New York Times
John F. Kennedy on C-SPAN
"Life Portrait of John F. Kennedy", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, November 5, 1999
Radio coverage of the assassination of President Kennedy as broadcast on WCCO-AM Radio (Minneapolis) and CBS Radio
Other
John F. Kennedy: A Resource Guide - the Library of Congress
Extensive Essays on JFK Archived August 11, 2007 at Wayback Machine with shorter essays on each member of his Cabinet and First Lady - Miller Center of Public Affairs
Kennedy Administration from Office of the Historian, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.
Works by or about John F. Kennedy at the Internet Archive
Works by John F. Kennedy on LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
List of John F. Kennedy's albums on Discogs
John F. Kennedy at Find a Grave
John F. Kennedy on DMOZ