John Fitzgerald Kennedy (Brookline, Massachusetts, May 29, 1917 – Dallas, Texas, November 22, 1963) was an American politician who served as the 35th President of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was also known as Jack to his friends or by his nickname JFK. He was the youngest person elected president at age 43. Kennedy served at the height of the Cold War, and much of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A member of the Democratic Party, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the United States Congress before his presidency. Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 and joined the United States Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he distinguished himself as the commander of the torpedo boat PT-109 in the South Pacific. During a reconnaissance mission, PT-109 was struck by a Japanese destroyer, which broke the boat in two and caused an explosion. The crew under his command swam to an island and survived until they were rescued. This feat brought him popularity and launched his political career. Kennedy represented Massachusetts as a member of the House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He then served as a senator from 1953 until he assumed the presidency in 1961. At 43, he was the Democratic Party's presidential nominee in 1960, subsequently facing and defeating Republican candidate Richard Nixon in one of the closest presidential elections. Kennedy's presidency saw significant tensions with communist states during the Cold War. The number of U.S. military advisors in South Vietnam increased. In 1961, he authorized attempts to overthrow the Cuban government led by Fidel Castro in the failed Bay of Pigs invasion and Operation Mongoose. In October 1962, U.S. spy planes discovered that Soviet missile bases had been deployed in Cuba. The resulting period of tension became known as the Cuban Missile Crisis and nearly resulted in nuclear war. In August 1961, after East German troops erected the Berlin Wall, Kennedy sent a U.S. military convoy to reassure West Germans of U.S. support, and he delivered one of his most famous speeches in West Berlin in June 1963. In 1963, Kennedy signed the first nuclear arms treaty. He presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, the Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of putting a man on the moon before 1970. He supported the civil rights movement but only had some success in passing his domestic New Frontier policies. On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas. Following his assassination, his vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency. Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested and identified as Kennedy's assassin; however, he was killed two days later by Jack Ruby, preventing him from being brought to trial. The Warren Commission concluded that Oswald acted alone in the assassination. However, the House Select Committee on Assassinations concluded in 1979 that a conspiracy may have existed. The issue has been widely debated, and multiple theories exist regarding the assassination. He was the fourth sitting president to be assassinated, after Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, and William McKinley. Many have regarded Kennedy as an icon of American aspirations and hopes; in some polls in his country, he continues to be considered one of the best presidents of the United States.
 
 
 == Biography ==
 
 
 === Childhood and Youth ===
 
 Kennedy's parents were Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. and Rose Fitzgerald. Joseph was a successful businessman and leader in the Irish-American community; he was ambassador to the United Kingdom. Rose was the eldest daughter of John "Honey Fitz" Fitzgerald, a prominent Boston political figure who was a congressman and mayor of the city. The couple had nine children. John was the second of them. He was born at 83 Beals Street, Brookline, Massachusetts, on Tuesday, May 29, 1917, at 3:00 p.m.
 For the first ten years of his life, he lived in Brookline. He attended Edward Devotion School, a public school, from kindergarten through the beginning of third grade. During fourth grade, he attended a private all-boys school called Noble and Greenough, later renamed Dexter School. In September 1927, he moved with his family to a rented 20-room mansion in Riverdale, in the Bronx borough of New York City. Two years later, they moved again, five miles northeast, to a 21-room mansion on a six-acre property in Bronxville, New York, purchased in May 1929. He was a Boy Scout, a member of the Bronxville Scout Troop 2, from 1929 to 1931, becoming the first Boy Scout to become President of the United States. He spent his summers with his family at a house in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, also purchased in 1929, and Christmas and Easter were celebrated at their home in Palm Beach, Florida, which they acquired in 1933. From fifth to seventh grade, John attended Riverdale Country School, an all-boys private school in Riverdale. In September 1930, Kennedy was sent to Canterbury School, an all-boys boarding school located fifty miles from his home in New Milford, Connecticut, for eighth grade. In late April 1931, he suffered an attack of appendicitis and underwent an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury to recuperate at home. In September 1931, John was sent with his older brother, Joe, two years his senior, to The Choate School, a private boys' college preparatory school sixty miles from their home in Wallingford, Connecticut. In January 1934, at Choate, he became ill and lost a great deal of weight; he was hospitalized at Yale-New Haven Hospital until Easter, and spent most of June 1934 hospitalized at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, undergoing tests for colitis. He graduated from Choate in June 1935. Kennedy's superlative in the school yearbook was "Most Likely to Become President." In September 1935, he traveled to London on the SS Normandie, on what would be his first trip abroad. He was accompanied by his parents and his sister, Kathleen. The idea behind the trip was for the young Kennedy to study for a year with Professor Harold Laski at the London School of Economics (LSE), as his older brother, Joe, had done. But in his second week at the LSE, he had to be hospitalized with jaundice. As a result, he sailed back to the United States after spending three weeks in the United Kingdom. In October 1935, Kennedy belatedly enrolled at Princeton University, where he stayed for only six weeks, since between January and February 1936 he was hospitalized for two weeks at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston for observation for possible leukemia. Between March and April of that year, he stayed in Palm Beach at the family's winter home, recuperating, and during May and June he worked on the 40,000-acre ranch outside Benson, Arizona. Then, between July and August, he participated in sailing competitions while staying at his family's summer home in Hyannis Port. In September 1936, unable to return to the LSE due to his fragile health, he enrolled for his first year at Harvard University, residing at Winthrop House from his first to his last year. He again followed in the footsteps of his brother Joe, who had already been at the university for two years. In July 1937, he traveled to France on the SS Washington, also bringing his convertible. He spent ten weeks driving with a friend, not only through that country, but also through Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. In late June 1938, he traveled with his father and brother Joe on the SS Normandie to work in July at the American embassy in London, as his father had been appointed U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In August, they went together to a villa near Cannes. From February to September 1939, Kennedy traveled through Europe, the Soviet Union, the Balkan Peninsula, and the Middle East to gather information for his thesis at Harvard University. He spent the last ten days of August in Czechoslovakia and Germany before returning to London on September 1, 1939, the very day of the German invasion of Poland. On September 3, 1939, he was with his parents, his brother Joe, and his sister Kathleen in the "Strangers Gallery" of the House of Commons, where he heard speeches supporting the United Kingdom's declaration of war on Germany. Kennedy was sent by his father as his representative to assist in the efforts to rescue American survivors of the transatlantic liner Athenia. At the end of September, he returned to the United States on a transatlantic flight aboard a Pan Am Dixie Clipper, which flew from Foynes, Ireland, to Port Washington, New York. In 1940, he completed his thesis, "Appeasement in Munich," about the United Kingdom's involvement in the Munich Agreement. He initially wanted his thesis to remain private, but his father convinced him to publish it as a book. He graduated cum laude from Harvard with a degree in international relations in June 1940, and in July of the same year, his thesis was published as Why England Slept, which became a bestseller. Between September and December 1940, he attended classes at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. In early 1941, he helped his father complete the writing of his memoirs of his three years as ambassador. In May and June 1941, he traveled through South America. Military Service: In the spring of 1941, he volunteered for the United States Army but was rejected, primarily due to his spinal problems. However, in September of that year, the United States Navy accepted him, thanks to the influence of the director of the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI), a former naval aide to his father during his time as ambassador to Great Britain. With the rank of ensign, he worked in an office responsible for bulletins and reports submitted to the Secretary of the Navy. It was during this period that the attack on Pearl Harbor occurred. He studied at the Naval Reserve Officers Training School and the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron Training Center before being assigned to Panama and eventually to operations in the Pacific. He participated in several missions and was promoted to ensign (commanding a PT boat, a small, fast patrol boat designed to launch surprise attacks on large ships, whose effect was compared to that of mosquitoes). On August 2, 1943, Kennedy's boat, PT-109, was rammed by the Japanese destroyer Amagiri while on a night mission near New Georgia in the Solomon Islands. John fell from the boat, injuring his spine again. Despite his injury, he helped his ten surviving crewmates, especially one whom he carried because he was badly wounded, reach an island where they were rescued. For this action, he received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal and the following recognition: Other decorations Kennedy received in World War II included the Purple Heart, the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. He was honorably discharged in early 1945, a few months before the Japanese surrender. His wartime actions were popularized after his election as president, becoming the subject of numerous magazine articles, books, comic books, television specials, and films. He helped make PT-109 one of the most famous ships in the U.S. Navy during the war: scale models and even G.I. Joe figures were made of it. Joe's comments about the incident continue into the 21st century. During his presidency, Kennedy privately admitted to friends that he did not feel deserving of the medals he received, as the PT-109 incident was the result of a military operation that cost the lives of two of his crew members. When a reporter asked him how he became a hero, Kennedy joked, "It was unintentional. They sank my ship." In August 1963, three months before his assassination, Kennedy wrote, "Any man who is asked in this century what he did to make his life worthwhile, I believe he can answer with considerable pride and satisfaction: I served in the United States Navy." In May 2002, a National Geographic expedition found what are believed to be the remains of the PT-109 in the Solomon Islands. A member of the Kennedy family traveled to the islands to deliver a gift to those who rescued John and were still alive, but communication problems prevented them from participating in the ceremony. The Australian Coast Guard, alerted by the islanders, were invited to the White House. Early Political Life: After World War II, Kennedy considered becoming a journalist. In the years before the war, he had not thought about politics, as his family had placed their political hopes on his older brother, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. However, Joseph died in World War II. When, in 1946, U.S. Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in a predominantly Democratic district to run for mayor of Boston, Kennedy ran for Representative, winning by a wide margin against his Republican opponent. He served in Congress for six years. His votes on various initiatives did not follow a fixed trend and frequently differed from the position of President Harry S. Truman and the rest of the Democratic Party. In 1952, he defeated Republican candidate Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. in the election for U.S. Senator. Kennedy married Jacqueline Lee Bouvier on September 12, 1953. During the next two years, he underwent several operations for his spinal problems. He came close to death (receiving the sacrament of last rites, as he would four times in his life). Consequently, he was absent from several Senate sessions. During his convalescence, he wrote Profiles in Courage, a book in which he describes eight situations in which U.S. senators risked their careers to stand firm in their personal convictions and beliefs. The book was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Biography in 1957. In 1956, presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson left the nomination of a vice-presidential candidate to the Democratic National Convention. Kennedy finished second in the voting, behind Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee. Thanks to this episode, and despite his defeat, Kennedy gained national notoriety, which would help him in the following years. His father, Joseph Kennedy, noted that it was ultimately good for John not to have received the nomination, because many would have blamed Catholics for the electoral defeat, even though they privately acknowledged that any Democrat would have had serious difficulties competing against Eisenhower in 1956. As a senator, John F. Kennedy voted for the final passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first law to protect certain minority rights, particularly the effective right to vote for Black people in the Southern states. However, Kennedy had previously voted in favor of an amendment that limited the courts' ability to prosecute violations of these civil rights, an amendment that greatly weakened the law's effectiveness (rendering it "toothless," as it was said at the time) by preventing the conviction of those who violated it. Some radical segregationists, such as Senators James Eastland and John McClellan, and Mississippi Governor James Coleman, were among the first to support Kennedy's presidential campaign. In 1958, Kennedy was re-elected to the Senate for a second term, defeating his Republican opponent, Boston lawyer Vincent J. Celeste, by a wide margin. Years later, it would be revealed that in September 1947, when he was 30 years old and during his first term as a congressman, Kennedy was diagnosed with Addison's disease (a very rare hormonal deficiency) by Sir Daniel Davis at The London Clinic. This and other medical problems were kept secret from the public and the press throughout Kennedy's life. Republican Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin, the main figure responsible for the anti-communist persecution of the early 1950s, was a close friend of the Kennedy family. Joe Kennedy always supported McCarthy. Robert F. Kennedy worked for McCarthy's subcommittee, and McCarthy was romantically involved with Patricia Kennedy. In 1954, when the Senate was considering impeaching the Wisconsin senator, John Kennedy drafted a speech censuring McCarthy, but never delivered it. On December 2, 1954, Senator Kennedy was in the hospital when the Senate announced its highly publicized decision to impeach McCarthy. Although absent, Kennedy could have influenced the decision, but he chose not to and never indicated how he would have voted. This episode severely damaged Kennedy's support within the more progressive community, especially that of Eleanor Roosevelt, even in the 1960 election. On January 2, 1960, Kennedy announced his intention to run in that year's presidential election. In the Democratic primary, he competed against Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota and Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon. Kennedy defeated Humphrey in Wisconsin and West Virginia, and Morse in Maryland and Oregon. He also overcame some token opposition (many were informal candidates, names written in by the voter on the ballot) in New Hampshire, Indiana, and Nebraska. In West Virginia, he visited the coal mines and spoke with the miners to gain their support; the majority of the electorate in that state was conservative and Protestant, very wary of Kennedy's Catholicism. Despite this, he emerged victorious in West Virginia, which confirmed his prestige as a candidate with popular appeal. With Humphrey and Morse out of the race, Kennedy's main opponent at the Los Angeles convention was Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas. Adlai Stevenson, the Democratic nominee in 1952 and 1956, was not officially running but had strong support among the base, whether present at the convention or not. Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri was also a contender. On July 13, Kennedy secured the Democratic presidential nomination, becoming the second Catholic to do so (Al Smith was the first in 1928, endorsed by Joseph Kennedy Sr.). Kennedy asked Johnson to be his running mate, despite opposition from many progressive delegates and Kennedy's inner circle, including his brother Robert. But he needed Johnson's popularity in the Southern states to win what was predicted to be one of the closest presidential elections since 1916. Key issues included Kennedy's Catholicism, Cuba, concerns about whether the Soviet Union was winning the space race, and missile programs. Kennedy felt that issues important to American citizens were being sidelined in the debates, in which he was often attacked for his Catholicism—an apprehension shared by much of the population, not only because of the Protestant majority, but also because they had never had a Catholic as president. To explain and allay the electorate's fears about whether his beliefs would influence his decisions as president, and to try to steer the debates back to the main issues of the American and world situation in 1960, on September 12 he gave a speech to the Greater Houston Ministerial Association (an organization of Protestant leaders and preachers in the Houston metropolitan area), in which he attempted to clarify doubts regarding his religion and explain how he would act in political situations that were contrary to his religious principles. He mentioned the issues that seemed most important to him: the growing influence of communism, the poverty of the population, referring to the people he saw in West Virginia who had nothing to eat and those families who had been forced to surrender their farms, the shortage of schools, and the increase in the poor population. He also mentioned the country's lagging position in the space race. In this speech, he uttered one of his famous phrases: "I am not the Catholic candidate for president." I am the Democratic Party nominee who also happens to be Catholic. I do not speak for the Church on public issues—and the Church does not speak for me.” Kennedy, who was known for his fight for civil rights during his presidency, raised the issue of discrimination against Catholics at the time in his speech, asking whether Catholics lost their right to be president, or to hold other public office, from the day they were baptized. Between September and October, three presidential debates were held between Kennedy and Richard Nixon, then Vice President of the United States and also the Republican presidential nominee. On September 26, 70 million viewers watched the first televised presidential debate in U.S. history. Before the first debate, Nixon had spent two weeks in the hospital due to a leg injury, sported a long beard, and refused to wear makeup. He appeared tense and uncomfortable, while Kennedy appeared relaxed. At the end of the debate, a large part of the audience declared Kennedy the winner. However, those listening on the radio declared Nixon the winner, or said the result was a tie. The second debate was held on October 7, and the third and final debate took place on October 13. Televised debates are now considered fundamental in American politics, but it was the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon debate that marked the moment when television began to play a dominant role in politics. After the debate, Kennedy's campaign gained momentum, surpassing Nixon by a few points in most polls. On Tuesday, November 8, Kennedy defeated Nixon in one of the closest presidential elections of the 20th century. In the national popular vote, Kennedy defeated Nixon 49.7% to 49.5%, while in the Electoral College he won with 303 votes to Nixon's 219 (269 were needed to win). Fourteen electors from Mississippi and Alabama refused to support Kennedy because of his support for the civil rights movement; these electors gave their votes to Senator Harry F. Byrd, Sr. of Virginia. Kennedy, at 43 years of age, became the youngest person elected president of the United States. However, he was not the youngest to hold the office, as in 1901, Vice President Theodore Roosevelt, 42 years old, served as president after the assassination of President William McKinley. Furthermore, Kennedy was the first Catholic president the country had ever had. Presidency and Death (1961-1963) John F. Kennedy served as the 35th President of the United States on January 20, 1961. In his inaugural address, he spoke of the need for American citizens to be more active, uttering one of his most famous phrases: "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country." He also called upon the other nations of the world to fight together against what he called "man's common enemy: tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself." He concluded by elaborating on his desire for greater internationalism: "Whether you are citizens of the United States or citizens of the world, demand of us the same generosity of strength and sacrifice that we ask of you." Domestic Policy: Kennedy called his domestic policy program "New Frontier." The ambitious plan promised federal funding for education, healthcare for the elderly, and government intervention to stem the recession. He also promised to end racial discrimination. In 1963, he proposed tax reform, including tax cuts, which was passed by Congress in 1964, after his assassination. Few of Kennedy's most important programs passed Congress during his lifetime, although under his successor, Johnson, Congress voted on them during the 1964-65 legislative session. Kennedy authorized the execution of two death sentences, one for a civilian conviction and the other for a military conviction, refusing in both cases to exercise his power to commute the sentence. He received a personal request from the governor of Iowa, Harold Hughes, for clemency for Victor Feguer, the civilian convicted man, but was unable to prevent his hanging on March 15, 1963. Both executions were landmarks. Feguer's was the last in Iowa (which abolished the death penalty in 1965) and also the last execution of a federal inmate before the 1972-1976 moratorium following the Furman v. United States case. Georgia. It was the last military execution.
 
 
 ==== Economy ====
 Kennedy ended a period of strict fiscal policy, loosened monetary policy to keep interest rates down and stimulate economic growth. Kennedy presided over the first government budget to exceed the $100 billion mark, in 1962, and his first budget in 1961 led to the first non-war and non-recessionary budget deficits. The economy, which had gone through two recessions in three years and was in another when Kennedy took office, accelerated markedly during his brief presidency. Despite low inflation and reduced interest rates, GDP had grown at an average rate of only 2.2% during Eisenhower's presidency (slightly more than population growth at the time), and declined by 1% during the last year of his administration. Stagnation had reached the country's labor market: unemployment rose steadily, from less than 3% in 1953 to 7% by early 1961. The economy turned around and prospered during the Kennedy administration. GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5% from early 1961 to late 1963, while inflation remained stable at around 1% and unemployment began to decline; industrial production increased by 15% and automobile sales jumped by 40%. This rate of GDP and industrial growth continued until around 1966, and it has yet to be repeated for a sustained period. One of the most pressing national issues of the Kennedy era was the turbulent end to practices of racial discrimination tolerated or even sanctioned by state authorities. The United States Supreme Court had ruled in 1954 that racial segregation in public schools was unconstitutional. However, many schools—especially those in the Southern states—did not comply with the Court's ruling. Segregation on buses, in restaurants, theaters, cinemas, restrooms, and other public spaces continued. Kennedy supported racial integration and civil rights, and during his 1960 campaign, he telephoned Coretta Scott King, wife of the imprisoned Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., which perhaps garnered support from the Black electorate for his candidacy. The intervention of John and Robert Kennedy secured King's release. In 1962, Black student James Meredith tried to enroll at the University of Mississippi, but violent demonstrations by white students prevented him from doing so, with the governor's tacit approval. Kennedy sent 400 federal agents and 3,000 soldiers to ensure Meredith could enroll and assigned agents to protect the "Freedom Riders." [citation needed] Early in his presidency, Kennedy believed that popular anti-segregation organizations and movements would only irritate many Southern whites, making it more difficult to pass civil rights legislation in a Congress dominated by Southern Democrats. He therefore distanced himself from the civil rights movement, whose leaders felt Kennedy did not support their efforts. On September 9, 1963, Kennedy addressed the nation regarding the continued segregation in Alabama, urging Governor George Wallace that order would only be maintained in the state if he was prepared to enforce it. He added that his "government is prepared to do everything necessary to ensure that court orders are carried out, but I am hopeful that Governor Wallace will require local officials and communities to assume their responsibilities on this issue, which they are prepared to do." On June 11, the president intervened when the governor blocked the entrance to the University of Alabama to prevent two African American students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from enrolling. Wallace only relented when pressured by federal marshals, Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, and the Alabama National Guard. That afternoon, Kennedy delivered his famous civil rights speech on radio and television. In the speech, he urged members of Congress to legislate on the issue so that the goals proposed by Lincoln more than 100 years earlier could be achieved. This proposal would become the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
 
 
 ==== Immigration ====
 Kennedy supported his party's proposals to review and change government policy on immigration. He favored greater equality and protection of rights for both native-born citizens and those who obtained U.S. citizenship. These ideas would become, during his presidency, the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, promoted by his brother, Senator Edward Kennedy. The law drastically changed the origin of immigration, shifting it from northern and western Europe to Latin America and Asia, and changed the scale of priorities: previously, the selection of immigrants was paramount; After the law, family reunification mattered. Kennedy wanted to dismantle the policy of selecting immigrants based on their country of origin, seeing this as an expansion of policies relating to civil rights. Space Program: Kennedy anxiously desired that the United States lead the space race. Sergei Khrushchev says that Kennedy approached his father, Nikita, twice about a joint venture to explore space: in June 1961 and in the fall of 1963. On the first occasion, the Soviet Union was far more advanced in terms of space technology than the U.S. The first time Kennedy declared the goal of putting a man on the Moon was at a Joint Session of Congress and the Senate, held on May 25, 1961. On that occasion he said: In September 1962, at Rice University, he gave a speech: In the second approach to Khrushchev, the Russian was persuaded of the benefits of sharing the costs and because American technology was more advanced. The U.S. launched a satellite into geostationary orbit, and Kennedy asked Congress to approve a budget of over $25 billion for the Apollo Program. Khrushchev agreed to work together in the fall of 1963, but Kennedy was assassinated before such an agreement could be formalized. On July 20, 1969, almost six years after JFK's death, the goal of the Apollo Program was achieved, and a man set foot on the Moon. Foreign Policy: Cuba and the Bay of Pigs Invasion. Before Kennedy was elected president, the Eisenhower administration created a plan to overthrow Fidel Castro's regime in Cuba. As a central part of the plan, structured and detailed by the CIA with minimal support from the State Department, was the arming of a counterrevolutionary insurrection composed of anti-Castro Cubans. The Cuban insurgents, trained by the US, were to invade Cuba and incite an uprising of the Cuban people to achieve the objective of overthrowing Castro from power. On April 17, 1961, Kennedy ordered the plan to be executed. With CIA support, in what became known as the Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1,500 Cuban exiles, trained by the U.S. and dubbed "Brigade 2506," returned to the island hoping to stage a coup against the revolutionary government. However, Kennedy ordered the invasion to proceed without U.S. air support. By April 19, the Cuban government had killed or captured more than 300 invaders, and Kennedy was forced to negotiate the departure of the 1,189 survivors. Among the causes of the plan's failure were the lack of dialogue between military leaders and the complete lack of naval support to counter the island's effective artillery, which easily incapacitated the Cuban exiles when they landed. After 20 months, Cuba released the captured exiles in exchange for $53 million worth of food and medicine. The incident was very embarrassing for Kennedy, but he took full responsibility for the failure. Because of this invasion, Castro began to worry about the Americans, believing there would be a second invasion. The Cuban Missile Crisis began on October 14, 1962, when U-2 spy planes photographed the construction of silos for Soviet long-range missiles in Cuba. Kennedy saw the photos on October 16, 1962. With the United States facing an imminent nuclear threat, Kennedy faced a dilemma: if the U.S. attacked these installations, it could trigger a nuclear war with the USSR; but if he remained silent, the country would have nuclear weapons just a few kilometers away, and given the short distance the missiles would be at, the chances of a response would be minimal, not to mention that at that time there were already American missiles deployed in Turkey, very close to the USSR's borders. Added to this was the concern about the image of weakness the U.S. would project to the world. Many military officers and members of the EXCOMM pressured Kennedy to approve an air strike against the Cuban missile sites, but the president ordered a naval quarantine in which the U.S. Navy would inspect all ships arriving in Cuba. He initiated talks with the Soviets to have them remove all the "defense" equipment they had installed in Cuba; if they did not, the quarantine would be indefinite. A week later, he reached an agreement with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev that would eliminate missiles subject to UN inspections if the US declared it would never invade Cuba. After this crisis, the closest the US had come to nuclear war, Kennedy was more cautious in his confrontations with the Soviet Union. Latin America and Communism: Arguing that "those who make peaceful revolutions impossible make violent revolutions inevitable," he sought to contain communism and revolutions in Latin America with an Alliance for Progress, through which international aid would be sent to countries in trouble within the region, seeking a standard of human rights. He worked closely with the governor of Puerto Rico, Luis Muñoz Marín, and the president of Venezuela, Rómulo Betancourt, on the development of the Alliance for Progress, as well as on the autonomy of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In December 1961, he made a state visit to Puerto Rico, Venezuela, and Colombia, which were promoted as democratic strongholds opposed to Castro's communism. The Peace Corps: As one of his first presidential acts, Kennedy created the Peace Corps. Through this program, Americans could volunteer to help developing nations in education, agriculture, health, and construction. Africa: Kennedy gave a speech at Saint Anselm University on March 5, 1960, regarding the United States' conduct in the new realities of the emerging Cold War. The speech detailed how foreign policy should be conducted toward the nations of Africa, offering a nudge to modern African nationalism by saying: “For us, too, a new nation was founded on rebellion against colonial domination.” In 1963, the Kennedy administration backed a coup against the Iraqi government led by General Abdul Karim Qasim, who five years earlier had overthrown the Western allies with the Iraqi monarchy. The CIA assisted the new Ba'ath Party governments led by Abdul Salam Arif in ridding the country of alleged leftists and communists. In a Ba'athist coup, the government used lists of suspected communists and other leftists provided by the CIA to assassinate countless members of Iraq's most educated elite (crimes in which Saddam Hussein himself is said to have participated). Among the victims were hundreds of doctors, professors, technicians, lawyers, and other professionals, as well as military and political figures. According to an opinion piece in The New York Times, the United States supplied the new regime with weapons—the same weapons used against the Kurdish insurgents that the U.S. had supported against Qassem and then abandoned. American and British oil companies and other interests, including Mobil, Bechtel, and British Petroleum, were conducting business in Iraq under the protection of the Ba'athist regime. In Southeast Asia, Kennedy continued what Eisenhower had begun, using limited military force to combat Ho Chi Minh's forces. Proclaiming a war against the spread of communism, he established programs to assist the unstable government of South Vietnam by providing political, economic, and military aid, including sending 16,000 US troops and Special Forces as military advisors, increasing the presence to 60,000 troops. Kennedy agreed to use "free-fire zones," napalm, Agent Orange, and jet aircraft. The United States became increasingly involved in the region until its armed forces were deployed to the Vietnam War during the Johnson administration. Kennedy increased military support, but South Vietnamese forces were unable to overcome those of the Viet Minh and Viet Cong. Kennedy faced the Vietnam crisis in July 1963. The CIA plan, supported by JFK, was to stage a coup against South Vietnamese President Ngo Dinh Diem by Vietnamese generals who could be manipulated by the Americans. On November 2, Diem was overthrown, arrested, and executed (although the circumstances of his death have not been made public, as the coup's archives are considered a state secret). When Kennedy was informed, Maxwell Taylor recalls that he "rushed from the room, perplexed and disappointed." He had not approved of Diem's ​​assassination. One reason for the fear of supporting him was the possibility that he would negotiate with Ho Chi Minh to form a neutral governing coalition that could include communists, as happened in Laos in 1962. Dean Rusk, the US Secretary of State, said, "Neutralism... equals surrender." It remains a point of contention among historians whether, had Kennedy finished his presidential term and been re-elected in 1964, the Vietnam War would have escalated as it did. Fueling these speculations are the statements of Kennedy and Johnson's Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, who claimed that Kennedy considered withdrawing US forces from Vietnam after his re-election. In the film *The Fog of War*, not only does McNamara say this, but a recording of Johnson is presented in which he confirms that Kennedy planned to withdraw his forces from Vietnam, a position disapproved of by the vice president. Further evidence is Kennedy's National Security Action Memorandum (NSAM) #263 of October 11, 1963, in which he ordered the withdrawal of 1,000 military personnel by the end of 1963. Despite this, and given the reason for overthrowing the Diem administration, such an action would have been a drastic reversal of his previous policy, although since his acclaimed speech on world peace on June 10, 1963, at American University, Kennedy was moving toward less aggressive policies in the Cold War. However, a lesser-known facet, championed by historians and journalists, portrays the former Democratic president as a key architect in the escalation of the Vietnam War, provoking a military coup against the president. South Vietnamese Ngo Dinh Diem was even the direct sponsor of his assassination, because Diem opposed an increase in US military involvement in Vietnam and was considering breaking his country's alliance with the United States. After Kennedy's assassination, President Lyndon B. Johnson, with his NSAM Order #273 of November 26, 1963, reversed his predecessor's order to withdraw 1,000 troops by the end of the year. Speech in West Berlin. At the end of World War II, Germany was divided under simultaneous pressure from the Allies and the Soviets. With the construction of the Berlin Wall on August 13, 1961, the communists divided Berlin into two parts: one, under Allied control, would be called West Berlin, and the other, under Soviet control, would be called East Berlin. Kennedy visited the western side and on June 26, 1963, delivered a speech criticizing communism on the fifteenth anniversary of the Soviet blockade of Berlin. In the speech, delivered from the balcony of the Schöneberg Town Hall, he pointed to the construction of the Wall as an example of communist failure: "Freedom involves many difficulties and democracy is not perfect, but we were never forced to erect a wall to confine our people." The phrase "Ich bin ein Berliner" ("I am a Berliner"), which made the speech famous, came to Kennedy as he was walking up to the balcony of the Schöneberg Town Hall. The idea was based on the ancient Roman phrase civis romanus sum (I am a citizen of Rome). He approached his interpreter, Robert H. Lochner, to translate the phrase "I am a Berliner" and to help him with his pronunciation, quickly writing the phrase and its pronunciation on a piece of paper. Nearly 83% of Berlin's population was in the streets when Kennedy uttered this phrase. Impressed, he would later confess to his aides, "We will never have another day like this." Disturbed by the constant dangers of radioactive contamination and the proliferation of nuclear weapons, Kennedy pushed for the adoption of the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which prohibited atomic tests on land, in the atmosphere, or underwater, but not underground tests. The United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union were the initial signatories to the treaty. Kennedy signed the treaty into U.S. law in August 1963. When Kennedy visited Ireland in 1963, he met with the country's president, Éamon de Valera, to establish the American Irish Foundation. The mission of this organization was to foster communication between Americans of Irish descent and the country of their ancestors. Kennedy deepened these relations of cultural solidarity by accepting a coat of arms from the Chief Herald of Ireland. He also visited the country house where the Kennedy ancestors lived before emigrating to the United States and said, "This is where it all began..." On December 22, 2006, the Irish Department of Justice declassified police documents indicating that Kennedy received three death threats during his visit. They were considered to be fake, but the Irish police nevertheless adopted extraordinary security measures. The president was shot multiple times on Elm Street in Dallas, Texas, while riding in a Ford Lincoln Continental Convertible at 12:30 p.m. on November 22, 1963, during his political tour of Texas. He was pronounced dead half an hour later. Lee Harvey Oswald, the alleged assassin, was arrested at a theater 80 minutes after the shooting. Oswald was charged with killing Dallas police officer J.D. Tippit, before being charged with the president's murder. Oswald said he hadn't killed anyone, claiming he was just a decoy. On November 29, Lyndon B. Johnson created the Warren Commission—chaired by Supreme Court Justice Earl Warren—to investigate the assassination. The Commission concluded that Oswald acted alone, but its findings remain a subject of both academic and popular debate. The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) was established in 1976 to investigate the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The committee's investigations lasted until 1978, and in 1979 they issued their final report. In that report, they concluded, among other things, that President John F. Kennedy was assassinated as a result of a conspiracy involving several branches of the U.S. government. The Justice Department, FBI, CIA, and the Warren Commission were severely criticized by the Committee for their poor performance in the investigations, and the Secret Service was deemed deficient in its protection of the president. In particular, a significant percentage of Americans surveyed believe in some kind of conspiracy. Such beliefs are also widespread in the extensive literature on the subject. According to the renowned American historian Dr. Michael Parenti, of some 600 books published on Kennedy's assassination up to 1996, "80 percent attributed the assassination to a conspiracy linked to U.S. intelligence agencies.". 
 
 
 === Funeral and Burial ===
 
 After the assassination, Kennedy's body was taken to Washington, D.C., to the East Wing of the White House, where it remained until Sunday. On November 24, the casket was transported in a horse-drawn hearse from the White House to the Capitol, where it lay in state. On Monday, November 25, a state funeral was held, attended by more than 90 representatives from various countries. The day after the assassination, the new President Johnson had declared Monday a national day of mourning. In the morning, a memorial service was held at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington, D.C., and then he was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
 On March 14, 1967, Kennedy's body was moved to his permanent burial site in Arlington National Cemetery. He is buried next to his wife and younger children. His brother, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, is nearby. Her grave was illuminated by what is known as an "eternal flame." In the documentary The Fog of War, then-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara said he chose the site for the grave and that Jackie agreed. Kennedy and William Howard Taft are the only US presidents buried at Arlington Cemetery.
 
 
 === Cabinet ===
 
 
 === Supreme Court Appointees ===
 Kennedy appointed the following judges as Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States:
 
 Byron Raymond White — 1962
 Arthur Joseph Goldberg — 1962
 
 
 == Social and Family Life ==
 
 John and Jackie Kennedy had four children. Their first child, Arabella Kennedy, died before birth in 1956. Their second child, Caroline Kennedy, was born in 1957, and their first son, John F. Kennedy, Jr., was born in 1960. He died in a plane crash in 1999. Their last child, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, was born the same year as Kennedy's assassination but died two days later. Kennedy died at birth due to respiratory problems. Kennedy and his wife Jackie were very young compared to previous presidents and first ladies. Both were extraordinarily popular in a way more akin to pop singers and movie stars than politicians, influencing fashions and becoming subjects for numerous popular magazines. Jacqueline bought artwork and furniture for the White House and redecorated all its rooms. Outside the White House, the Kennedys established a preschool, a swimming pool, and a treehouse. Jackie disliked having her children photographed, but when she was not around, the president allowed the official White House photographer, Cecil Stoughton, to photograph the children, resulting in the images of the children that are probably best known, especially the one of John Jr. playing under the president's desk in the Oval Office. The president is generally associated with popular culture. Things like Twisting at the White House and the musical Camelot (the popular Broadway show) are part of JFK culture. Vaughn Meader's comedy album First Family—a parody of the president, the first lady, their children, and the Kennedy administration—sold nearly four million copies. On May 19, 1962, Marilyn Monroe sang for the president at his birthday party at Madison Square Garden. Behind the glamorous facade, the Kennedys suffered great personal tragedies. Jacqueline suffered a miscarriage in 1955, and in 1956 she gave birth to her daughter, Arabella Kennedy, who has since died. The death of their newborn son, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, in August 1963, was a great loss. Since Kennedy's death, there has been speculation about numerous extramarital affairs he allegedly had during his presidency with women such as actress Marilyn Monroe and Mary Pinchot Meyer, a member of the so-called Jet Set. The charisma of Kennedy and his family led to his administration being popularly called "Camelot," due to comments made by his widow, who said that the Broadway play was one of her husband's favorites in an interview with Theodore White, who, upon finishing the interview, had "found the headline." Kennedy holds the Guinness World Record for the fastest speaking time in public, at 327 words per minute in a speech in December 1961. In October 1951, during his third term as Representative for Massachusetts' 11th district, the 34-year-old Kennedy embarked on a seven-week trip to Asia, visiting Israel, India, Vietnam, and Japan. to his brother Robert (25 years old, who had graduated from law school four months ago) and his sister Patricia (27 years old). Because John was eight years older than Robert, they had little contact. This 20,000-mile trip was the first time they had spent so much time together and resulted in them becoming best friends. Robert was his campaign manager for his successful 1952 Senate election, and he returned to that role for the 1960 presidential campaign. Despite the idyllic image the Kennedy marriage presented to much of the public, John Fitzgerald had extramarital affairs with interns in his staff for several years. Barbara Gamarekian wrote in J. F. Kennedy: An Unfinished Life that "it was not uncommon for JFK and his aides to have sexual relations with the young women who worked at the White House." Fortunately for him, the president's good relationship with the media prevented this news from becoming public knowledge. In the Gallup poll titled "List of the Most Admired People of the 20th Century," Kennedy came in third, surpassed only by Martin Luther King, Jr. and Mother Teresa of Calcutta. Legacy: Television was the primary source through which people kept themselves informed about the events surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Newspapers were kept as souvenirs rather than as up-to-date news sources. The three major television networks suspended their regular programming and broadcast news continuously from November 22 to 25. Kennedy's state funeral and the assassination of Lee Harvey Oswald were broadcast live across the country, as well as in other countries around the world. The state funeral was the first of three that took place within 18 months; the other two were those of General Douglas MacArthur and Herbert Hoover. The US ambassador to the UN, Adlai Stevenson, said of the assassination, "All of us... will carry the grief of his death until the end of our days." The death of President Kennedy and the events surrounding his assassination remain historically and politically significant in terms of the marked loss of faith of the American people in politics—a point emphasized by journalists from Gore Vidal to Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. The assassination of President Kennedy, and the unsolved mysteries surrounding it, remain historically and politically relevant and affected the American people's trust in politics. This death, along with the subsequent assassination of his brother, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., formed a series of political assassinations that eroded public confidence in the likelihood of achieving the desired political and social changes. Many of Kennedy's speeches (especially his inaugural address) are considered iconic. Despite his relatively short time in office, and although he did not introduce major legislative changes, Americans generally vote Kennedy as one of the country's greatest presidents, placing him on par with Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Excerpts from Kennedy's inaugural address are engraved on a plaque at his grave in Arlington National Cemetery. He was posthumously awarded the Pacem in Terris Prize. This prize was established in honor of Pope John XXIII's 1963 encyclical, in which he called upon all people of goodwill to work together to secure peace among all nations. The Latin phrase, Pacem in Terris, can be translated as 'Peace on Earth'. Kennedy is the only US president to have predeceased both his parents. He is also the only president to have predeceased both his grandparents. His maternal grandmother, Mary Josephine Hannon Fitzgerald, died in 1964, eight and a half months after his assassination.
 
 
 == Posthumous Tributes ==
 New York International Airport (formerly known as Idlewild Airport) was renamed John F. Kennedy International Airport on December 24, 1963. It is now popularly known as "JFK".
 The "John F. Kennedy Expressway", Chicago's largest freeway, was renamed in Kennedy's honor by a unanimous vote of the Chicago City Council within days of the president's assassination.
 John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Tampa, Florida, was renamed in Kennedy's honor in 1964 by a unanimous vote of the Tampa City Council. Kennedy visited Tampa on November 18, 1963, just four days before his assassination. His motorcade took him five miles down Grand Central Avenue to the heart of Tampa's business district. NASA's Launch Operations Center at Cape Canaveral was renamed the John F. Kennedy Space Center. Cape Canaveral itself was renamed Cape Kennedy, but this was reversed in 1973. A memorial in honor of Kennedy was established in Runnymede, England, the site where the Constitution was signed. In Bogotá, Colombia, a district, its main neighborhood, and the urban complex bear his name: Kennedy City and John Fitzgerald Kennedy UPZ (Local Planning Unit). In Tegucigalpa, Honduras, the Kennedy Colony was established in 1966 in honor of the president and for projects of the former National Housing Institute (INVA). Through the Alliance for Progress Program, promoted by former US President John F. Kennedy, INVA obtained its first loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), funds which were used to initiate the project. The ambitious project was named in honor of the president and program's champion, John F. Kennedy, and is currently considered the most populous colony in the country. A section of Interstate 95 in Maryland, which had been inaugurated by President Kennedy on November 14, 1963, eight days before his assassination, was renamed the John F. Kennedy Memorial Highway in 1964. The U.S. Navy aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy was named on April 30, 1964, and was in service until March 23, 2007. The John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum opened in 1979 as Kennedy's official presidential library. John F. Kennedy University opened in Pleasant Hill, California, in 1964 as a college for adult education. The John F. Kennedy National Historic Site preserves Kennedy's home in Brookline.
 At Harvard University:
 The Harvard Institute of Politics serves as an active memorial that promotes public services in his name.
 The School of Government is known as the John F. Kennedy School of Government.
 In Buenos Aires, Argentina, a university bears his name, the Universidad Argentina John F. Kennedy.
 The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts opened in 1971 in Washington, D.C., as a memorial in his name.
 A bridge over the Ohio River linking Louisville, Kentucky, and Jeffersonville, Indiana, which was completed four days before Kennedy's assassination, was renamed the John F. Kennedy Memorial Bridge.
 Philadelphia Municipal Stadium was renamed John F. Kennedy Stadium in 1964.
 Kennedy was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1963.
 Since 1964, a portrait of Kennedy has appeared on the half-dollar coin, replacing the previous portrait of Benjamin Franklin.
 Yad Kennedy is a memorial which was established on the ridge of the Jerusalem Forest, southwest of Jerusalem, near Amminadab. One of the Solomon Islands was named Kennedy Island. The city of Evansville, Indiana, observed John F. Kennedy Day on November 22, 2003, to commemorate the 40th anniversary of his death. One of the residential towers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst was named Kennedy Tower. In February 2007, Kennedy's and his wife's names were added to the Japanese spacecraft Kaguya, en route to the moon, as part of the Planetary Society's Messages from Earth project. The U.S. Army's John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School was named in his honor because of the president's support of the Army Rangers and the Green Berets. Thousands of schools in the U.S. have been named in his honor. The first school was Kennedy Middle School in Cupertino, California, while Kennedy was alive (1960). In the week following his assassination, the first schools renamed in his honor were the "Kennedy Elementary School" in Butte, Montana, and the "John F. Kennedy Middle School" on Long Island in Bethpage, New York. Eyre Square Park in Galway City, Ireland, was named John F. Kennedy Park after his visit in 1963. John F. Kennedy Avenue is a major avenue in San Juan, Puerto Rico; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; and Barranquilla, Colombia. In Asunción, Paraguay, a street is named after John F. Kennedy. It is located next to Eusebio Ayala Avenue, one of the main avenues in Paraguay. In Lima, Peru, the most popular park in the Miraflores tourist district is named after John F. Kennedy. In Arequipa, Peru, one of the city's main avenues is named "Avenida Kennedy". Kennedy City, a popular neighborhood in southern Bogotá, Colombia, was called Ciudad Techo until 1963 when it was renamed in honor of the President of the United States. Urbanization began in 1961 thanks to loans from the Alliance for Progress program, promoted by Kennedy himself during a state visit to Colombia that year. One idea that was rejected was to rename the state of West Virginia in honor of Kennedy. Emile J. Hodel, editor of the Beckley, West Virginia, Post-Herald, wrote in an editorial asking, "Why not change the name of West Virginia to Kennedy? Or perhaps Kennediana? What greater show of respect can a man receive than to have the state he loved most, after his home state of Massachusetts, renamed in his honor?" In Mexico City, there is the John F. Kennedy Housing Complex, a condominium complex in the eastern part of the capital, inaugurated by President Kennedy himself during his visit to Mexico and then-President Adolfo López Mateos in 1962. In Quito, the capital of Ecuador, a major residential area located in the north of the city was named John F. Kennedy, in honor of the president. In Santiago, Chile, a major thoroughfare in the northeastern part of the capital is called Avenida Presidente Kennedy; currently, the avenue forms part of the Santiago Urban Highway network, as it is part of the Costanera Norte Highway. Here you will find two of Chile's main shopping malls, Mall Parque Arauco and Mall Alto Las Condes, and the new Kennedy Tunnel, inaugurated in 2017. In the city of Paysandú, Oriental Republic of Uruguay, there is a primary school named after the president, School No. 8 "John F. Kennedy". In the town of Patiecitos in the state of Táchira, Venezuela, there is a primary school named "John F. Kennedy". Writings: 1940 - Why England Slept. University memoir published as a book. 1956 - Profiles in Courage. Book written while he was in the Senate about senators who faced various difficulties. For this book, Kennedy won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography. 1964 - A Nation of Immigrants. Posthumous book on immigration in the United States.
 
 
 == Film and television portrayals ==
 
 
 === Films ===
 PT 109 (1963): portrayed by Cliff Robertson
 Executive Action (1973): about the assassination; through use of historical archives
 JFK (1991): about the assassination; portrayed by Steve Reed
 Malcolm X (1992): portrayed again by Steve Reed
 Ruby (1992): portrayed by Gérard David and Kevin Wiggins
 Forrest Gump (1994): portrayed by Jed Gillin
 Thirteen Days (2000): portrayed by Bruce Greenwood
 Timequest (2002): portrayed by Victor Slezak
 Bubba Ho-Tep (2002): portrayed by Ossie Davis
 C.S.A.: The Confederate States of America (2004): through the use of historical archives, he is the Republican candidate for president of the Confederacy, winning against Democrat Richard Nixon (in reality, Kennedy was a Democrat and Nixon a Republican). His campaign was based on the abolition of slavery and women's suffrage, but he was assassinated nonetheless.
 The Butler (2013): played by James Marsden
 Jackie (2016): played by Caspar Phillipson.
 Blonde (2022): played by Caspar Phillipson.
 
 
 === Television ===
 President Kennedy’s Birthday Salute (1962): himself
 The Missiles of October (1974, TV): played by William Devane
 The Private Files of J. Edgar Hoover (1977): played by William Jordan
 Johnny, We Hardly Knew Ye (1977, TV): played by Paul Rudd
 Young Joe, the Forgotten Kennedy (1977, TV): played by Sam Chew, Jr.
 King (1978, TV): played by William Jordan again
 Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy (1981, TV): played by James Franciscus
 Blood Feud (1983, TV): played by Sam Groom
 Kennedy (1983, TV): played by Martin Sheen
 Prince Jack (1985, TV): played by Robert Hogan
 Robert Kennedy & His Times (1985, TV): played by Cliff De Young
 J. Edgar Hoover (1987, TV): played by Art Hindle
 LBJ: The Early Years (1987, TV): played by Charles Frank
 Onassis: The Richest Man in the World (1988, TV): played by David Gillum
 The Kennedys of Massachusetts (1990, TV): played by Steven Weber
 A Woman Named Jackie (1991, TV): recorded by Stephen Collins
 Sinatra (1992, TV): played by James F. Kelly
 J.F.K.: Reckless Youth (1993, TV): played by Patrick Dempsey
 Norma Jean & Marilyn (1996, TV): played by Perry Stephens
 Red Dwarf: Tikka to Ride (1997, TV): played by Michael Shannon
 The Rat Pack (1998, TV): played by William L. Petersen
 Bonanno: A Godfather's Story (1999, TV): played by Matt Norklun
 Jackie Bouvier Kennedy Onassis (2000, TV): portrayed by Tim Matheson, who acted as a fictional vice president in The West Wing 
 How to Marry a Billionaire: A Christmas Tale (2000, TV): portrayed by Dabney Coleman
 Jackie, Ethel, Joan: The Women of Camelot (2001, TV): portrayed by Daniel Hugh Kelly
 Power and Beauty (2002, TV): portrayed by Kevin Anderson
 RFK (2002, TV): portrayed by Martin Donovan
 America's Prince: The John F. Kennedy Jr. Story (2003, TV): portrayed by Randy Triggs
 Days That Shook the World episode JFK (2003, TV): portrayed by Karl J. Morris
 The Kennedys (2011, TV): portrayed by Greg Kinnear
 JFK: The Final Hours (2013, TV): about his last hours; through the use of historical archives
 22.11.63 (2016, TV): played by Christopher Phipps
 The Crown (2017, TV): played by Michael C. Hall
 American Horror Story: Double Feature (2021, Disney Plus/Star Plus): played by Mike Vogel
 
 
 == Notes ==
 
 
 == References ==
 
 
 == References in English ==
 
 
 === Fuentes primarias ===
 Goldzwig, Steven R. and Dionisopoulos, George N., eds. In a Perilous Hour: The Public Address of John F. Kennedy, text and analysis of key speeches (1995)
 
 
 === Fuentes secundarias ===
 Brauer, Carl. John F. Kennedy and the Second Reconstruction (1977)
 Burner, David. John F. Kennedy and a New Generation (1988)
 Dallek, Robert (2003). An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963. Brown, Little. ISBN 0-316-17238-3. 
 Collier, Peter & Horowitz, David. The Kennedys (1984)
 Cottrell, John. Murder! The World Stood Still (1964)
 Freedman, Lawrence. Kennedy's Wars: Berlin, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam (2000)
 Fursenko, Aleksandr and Timothy Naftali. One Hell of a Gamble: Khrushchev, Castro and Kennedy, 1958-1964 (1997)
 Giglio, James. The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1991), standard scholarly overview of politics
 Harper, Paul, and Joann P. Krieg eds. John F. Kennedy: The Promise Revisited (1988), scholarly articles on presidency
 Harris, Seymour E. The Economics of the Political Parties, with Special Attention to Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy (1962)
 Heath, Jim F. Decade of Disillusionment: The Kennedy–Johnson Years (1976), general survey of decade
 Hersh, Seymour. The Dark Side of Camelot (1997), highly negative assessment
 House Select Committee on Assassinations. Final Assassinations Report (1979)
 Kunz, Diane B. The Diplomacy of the Crucial Decade: American Foreign Relations during the 1960s (1994)
 O'Brien, Michael. John F. Kennedy: A Biography (2005), the most detailed biography
 Parmet, Herbert. Jack: The Struggles of John F. Kennedy (1980)
 Parmet, Herbert. JFK: The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1983)
 Piper, Michael Collins. Final Judgment (2004: sixth edition). American Free Press.
 Reeves, Richard. President Kennedy: Profile of Power (1993), balanced assessment of policiesReeves, Thomas. A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy (1991) hostile assessment of his character flaws
 Schlesinger, Arthur, Jr. A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House (1965), by a close advisor
 Schlesinger, Arthur, Jr. Robert Kennedy And His Times (2002)
 Smith, Jean Edward. Kennedy and Defense: The Formative Years. Air University Review (March-April 1967) go to article 
 Smith, Jean Edward. The Defense of Berlin, Baltimore. Johns Hopkins Press (1963)
 Smith, Jean Edward. The Wall as Watershed, Arlington, Virginia. Institute for Defense Analysis (1966)
 Smith, Jean Edward. %"The Bay of Pigs: The Unanswered Questions%". The Nation, pp. 360-363 (April 13, 1964)
 Sorensen, Theodore. Kennedy (1966), by a close advisor
 Walsh, Kenneth T. Air Force One: A History of the Presidents and Their Planes (2003)
 
 
 == Bibliografía en español ==
 Schlesinger, Arthur M. (J. R.) (1966). Kennedy's thousand days. Aymá. ISBN 978-84-209-0564-8. 
 Sorensen, Theodore C.. Kennedy: the man, the president. Grijalbo. ISBN 978-84-253-0174-2. 
 Kennedy, John Fitzgerald (1970). El deber y la gloria: John F. Kennedy's political testament. Bruguera. ISBN 84-02-00477-6. 
 Dallek, Robert. J.F. Kennedy An Unfinished Life. Ocean. ISBN 970-651-894-0. 
 Rorabauch, W. J. (2005). Kennedy and the death of the sixties. Ediciones Paidos Ibérica S.A. ISBN 978-84-493-1665-4. 
 Collier, Peter; Horowitz, David A. (2004). Los Kennedy. Tusquets Editors. ISBN 9788483109861. 
 
 
 == External links ==
  Portal:United States. Content related to the United States.
  Wikimedia Commons hosts a multimedia gallery about John F. Kennedy.
  Wikiquote hosts famous phrases about John F. Kennedy.
 John F. Kennedy Library John F. Kennedy Library (in English)
 Video, audio and text of the inaugural speech of John F. Kennedy's Inaugural Address John F. Kennedy's Inaugural Address (in English)
 Official biography of JFK on the Casa Blanca website (in English)
 Miller Center of Public Affairs Extensive essay on John F. Kennedy with smaller essays on each member of his cabinet and the Primera Dama (in English)
 Miller Center of Public Affairs Complete audio of Kennedy's speeches (in English) 
 Warren Commission Report on the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy (in English)
 John Fitzgerald Kennedy (1917-1963) at Find a Grave 